doc/MIGRATION-v6.md, before:

# Migration from 5.x to 6.x

## Contents:
- [API/Impl split](#apiimpl-split)
- [Default Maps](#default-maps)
- [Backwards Compatibility Interceptor](#backwards-compatibility-interceptor)
- [Namespace Changes](#namespace-changes)
- [Deserialization Resolution](#deserialization-resolution)
- [Deprecation Removals](#deprecation-removals)
- [Resource Changes](#resource-changes)
- [lists Removal](#lists-removal)
- [GenericKubernetesClient Removal](#generickubernetesclient-removal)
- [IntOrString Changes](#intorstring-changes)
- [Extension Changes](#extension-changes)
- [Adapt Changes](#adapt-changes)
- [Deprecations](#deprecations)
- [Object sorting](#object-sorting)
- [DSL Interface Changes](#dsl-interface-changes)
- [evict Changes](#evict-changes)
- [Delete Behavior](#delete-behavior)
- [Stream Changes](#stream-changes)
- [OpenShift Config Model Changes](#openshift-config-model-changes)

## API/Impl split

This release introduces `kubernetes-client-api` and `openshift-client-api` modules.  You may use them as **compile** dependencies in your application with the respective `kubernetes-client` and `openshift-client` as **runtime** dependencies.  This will keep your compile classpath cleaner of classes and libraries that are not intentionally exposed by the Fabric8 Kubernetes Client.

If you are directly relying on classes in the -client jars other than `DefaultKubernetesClient` and `DefaultOpenShiftClient`, please let us know your usage scenario. Moving forward we'd like consider all classes in the -client jars internal.

When you rely solely on a compile dependency to the respective -api dependencies you will not be able to use `DefaultKubernetesClient` nor `DefaultOpenShiftClient` directly to create your client instances.  You should instead use `KubernetesClientBuilder`.  Passing a configuration of HttpClient is instead done through builder methods - `withConfig` and `withHttpClientFactory`.  For example:

```java
KubernetesClient client = new KubernetesClientBuilder().build();
// ...  
```
```java
OpenShiftClient openShiftClient = new new KubernetesClientBuilder().withConfig(new OpenShiftConfigBuilder()./*...*/build()).build().adapt(OpenShiftClient.class);
// ...
```

### OkHttp HttpClient

The -client dependencies still default to the OkHttp client If you are doing any customization to OkHttp clients directly, you'll need to include the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency in the compile scope - instead of the default runtime scope

### JDK HttpClient

The JDK client should be considered experimental, please consult the [README](../httpclient-jdk/README.md).

To use it, exclude the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency and add the `kubernetes-httpclient-jdk` dependency.

### Eclipse Jetty HttpClient

The Eclipse Jetty client should be considered experimental.

To use it, exclude the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency and add the `kubernetes-httpclient-jetty` dependency.

### Package Changes

- Readiness/OpenShiftReadiness moved from client.internal.readiness to client.readiness
- client.utils classes including Base64, CreateOrReplaceHelper, DeleteOrCreateHelper, OptionalDendencyWrapper, etc. are not in the -api jar, they are still in the -client jar under utils.internal.
- Some other effectively internal classes in dsl.base and other packages were moved to corresponding internal packages - it is unlikely this will affect you unless you developed a custom extension.  Extension development can now be done exclusively against the api, please see the previous section.

## Default Maps

All Maps in the generated object models, including `ObjectMeta.annotations` and `ObjectMeta.labels` will also be non-null by default. A small behavioral difference is that the default value will be omitted from serialization. **Previously**, if you did something like: 

```java
Pod p = new PodBuilder().withNewMetadata().withLabels(new HashMap()).endMetadata().build();
```
The `Pod` instance `p` would be serialized to: 

```yaml
metadata: 
  labels: {}
```

Now, that empty map will be omitted - which is the same as the existing behavior for arrays.

## Backwards Compatibility Interceptor

The Backwards Compatibility interceptor is now **disabled** by default.
The property `kubernetes.backwardsCompatibilityInterceptor.disable` or environment variable `KUBERNETES_BACKWARDSCOMPATIBILITYINTERCEPTOR_DISABLE` setting now defaults to `true`, rather than `false`.  If you need backwards compatibility support, please set this property to false.

## Namespace Changes

To match the behavior of kubectl the client will now consider any call to `inNamespace` as the namespace to use regardless of what is on a passed in item.  
Only if the client is left at the default namespace or a call has been made to `inAnyNamespace` will the item namespace be used.  
This applies to all calls to `inNamespace` - at the Client, Operation, or Resource level, and for all operations (load, create, delete, withItem, etc.)

The end result is that exceptions referring to mismatched namespaces will no longer be thrown.

Consider the following examples:

```java
// inNamespace called at the client level with load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that is not monitoring.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.inNamespace("monitoring").configMaps().load(item)/*...*/;

// inNamespace called at an operation level with load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that is not monitoring.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.configMaps().inNamespace("monitoring").load(item)/*...*/;

// inNamespace called at the client level with resource
// Prior behavior - context namespace is changed to match the item.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.inNamespace("monitoring").resource(item)/*...*/;

// default namespace call to create
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that does not match the context.  
// New behavior - item will be created with its namespace, or the default if missing
kubernetesClient.configMaps().create(item); // Note, this is deperecated 

// default namespace call to load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that does not match the context.  
// New behavior - item will be loaded with its namespace, or the default if missing
kubernetesClient.configMaps().load(item)/*...*/;
```

To track the namespace handling at the client level the `Config` has an additional boolean field `defaultNamespace`, you may set that to `false` to have the Client treat subsequent calls as if `inNamespace` had been called explicitly.

## Deserialization Resolution

The `apiVersion` on a resource being deserialized is now required.

If a version only is specified as the `apiVersion` (e.g. `apiVersion: v1`), it may match kubernetes built-in types with an empty group (for example `Pod`), or OpenShift built in types (for example `kind: Template` `apiVersion: v1` is allowed to match apiVersion: `template.openshift.io/v1`).

Otherwise, with group and version specified, the resource match uniquely with a class.  This prevents the unintentional parsing of custom types without a registered class as a built-in type of the same name.  

This means that you must ensure the `apiVersion` values are correct on the objects you are deserializing as they will no longer resolve to built-in type of the same name when there is a mistake.

## Deprecation Removals

- Removed `KubernetesClient.customResource` / `RawCustomResourceOperationsImpl`, please use the generic resource api instead 
- Removed `HttpClientUtils.createHttpClient(final Config config, final Consumer<OkHttpClient.Builder> additionalConfig)`, please use the `OkHttpClientFactory` instead
- Removed methods on `SharedInformerFactory` dealing with the `OperationContext`
- Removed `DefaultKubernetesClient` and `DefaultOpenShiftClient` constructors directly referencing OkHttp - use `OkHttpClientImpl` to wrap the `OkHttpClient`, or the `OkHttpClientFactory` instead.
- Removed the `AutoAdaptableKubernetesClient`, use the new `KubernetesClientBuilder` instead
- Removed `OpenShiftConfig` and `OpenshiftApiGroupsEnabled` methods
- Removed `Recreateable`, `RecreateApplicable`, and `ApplicableAnd` from the hierarchy of `ParameterNamespaceListVisitFromServerGetDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable`
- Removed `Applicable.apply` as it  was just an alias for `createOrReplace`

### Extension Development

Extension development may now be done using only the `kubernetes-client-api` dependency. Please see the [extensions](../extensions).

Of note:
- extension related classes are now in the package `io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.extension`, which means that you should now use `META-INF/services/io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.extension.ExtensionAdapter`
- Unless you need support for specific metadata to be returned by calls to `rootPaths`, `apiGroups`, or `apiResources`, you do not need to create a mock module.  The mocking logic can accommodate for based adapt/support checks.
- Do not include any check of support in `ExtensionAdapter.adapt`

## Resource Changes

`KubernetesClient.resource` no longer returns `NamespaceVisitFromServerGetWatchDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable`, use `NamespaceableResource` instead.

This may require you to implement previously deprecated methods on your own.  For example, instead of:

```java
client.resource(deployment).inNamespace(session.getNamespace()).deletingExisting().createOrReplace();
```

Use:

```java
var resource = client.resource(deployment).inNamespace(session.getNamespace());
resource.withTimeout(30, TimeUnit.SECONDS).delete();
resource.create();
```

Similarly `ParameterNamespaceListVisitFromServerGetDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable` had the `Recreateable` interface removed, which requires the same logic as above to implement the `deletingExisting` behavior

If you are simply trying to emulate the kubectl apply feature, consider instead using an edit or the new server side apply feature.

## lists Removal

`KuberentesClient.lists` was removed.  This entry point is effectively the same as `KubernetesClient.resourceList` or load.  Please use one of those methods instead.

For example:

Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().load`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList` or `KubernetesClient.load`
Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().create(list)`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList(list.getItems()).create()`
Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().delete(list)`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList(list.getItems()).delete()`

## GenericKubernetesClient Removal

GenericKubernetesClient has been removed. Instead the relevant methods are on `NamespacedKubernetesClient` and `NamespacedOpenShiftClient` directly.

## IntOrString changes

We've removed setter methods `setIntVal`, `setKind`, `setStrVal` from the class. You'd need to rely on constructors or builders for creating `IntOrString` object. Here are some examples:

- Creating an Integer based object:
  ```java
  // Creating using Constructor
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString(3000);
  // Creating using Builder
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrStringBuilder().withValue(89).build(); 
  ```
- Creating a String based object:
  ```java
  // Creating using Constructor
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString("3000");
  // Creating using Builder
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrStringBuilder().withValue("89").build();
  ```
- You can rely on existing `getIntVal`, `getStrVal` methods to get Integer or String values respectively:
  ```java
  // Get Integer values:
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString(3000);
  Integer intValue = i1.getIntVal();
  
  // Get String values:
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrString("3000");
  String strValue = i2.getStrVal();
  ```

## Extension Changes

- `io.fabric8.servicecatalog.client.internal.XXXResource` interfaces moved to `io.fabric8.servicecatalog.client.dsl.XXXResource` to no longer be in an internal package.

- `io.fabric8.volumesnapshot.client.internal.XXXResource` interfaces moved to `io.fabric8.volumesnapshot.client.XXXResource` to no longer be in an internal package.

- the jsonschema2pojo logic was consolidated with the built-in models.  This introduces some previously excluded fields, such as `PipelineSpec._finally`.  It will also manipulate properties to conform to expectations of the builder logic - so rather than `JSONSchemaPropsBuilder.getxDescriptors` there will be `getXDescriptors`.

## Adapt Changes

`Client.isAdaptable` and `Client.adapt` will check first if the existing client is an instance of the desired type.

`Client.adapt` will no longer perform the `isAdaptable` check - that is you may freely adapt from one Client to another as long as the extension exists.  If you need to make a specific check of support, please use the `Client.supports` method.

## Deprecations

- `ApiVersionUtil` classes in each extension have been deprecated, you should use `io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.utils.ApiVersionUtil` instead.
- `HttpClientUtils.createHttpClient` has been deprecated, you should create your own client factory instead.

- Extension specific `EnableXXXMockClient` and `XXXMockServer` classes have been deprecated.  You can simply use `EnableKubernetesMockClient` and `KubernetesMockServer` instead. Dependencies on the xxx-mock jar are then no longer needed, just a dependency to `kubernetes-server-mock`.
- `Client.supportsApiPath` and `Client.isAdaptable` have been deprecated.  Please use `Client.supports` and `Client.hasApiGroup` as needed.

- `Informable.withIndexers` has been deprecated.  Indexers can be added/removed after the creation of the informer.

- The methods provided by `MultiDeleteable` have moved to `FilterWatchListMultiDeletable` and have been deprecated. You may use `KubernetesClient.resourceList`, or the individual resource methods to delete the items.

- DSL methods available off of a resource context involving a resource - `client.configMaps().withName("name").create(configMap)` - should instead use a no-argument method - `client.configMaps().resource(configMap).create()` or `client.resource(configMap).create()`.

- DSL methods available off of a collection context involving a resource - `client.configMaps().create(configMap)` - should instead use a no-argument method - `client.configMaps().resource(configMap).create()` or `client.resource(configMap).create()`.  
The only exception to the above is `patch(PatchContext, item)` - it is valid to be called after withName. 

- CustomResourceList was deprecated - use DefaultKubernetesResourceList instead.

## Object Sorting

`KubernetesList` and `Template` will no longer automatically sort their objects by default. You may use the `HasMetadataComparator` yourself to sort the items as needed.

## DSL Interface Changes

- The usage of `Boolean` in the api was removed where it was not a nullable value.  Please expect a `boolean` primitive from methods such as delete, copy, or as an argument in `Loggable.getLog`

- `WatchListDeletable` now takes three type parameters to include the Resource type.

- `PodResource`, `BuildResource`, and interfaces related to containers and logging are no longer generic.

- `SharedInformer` was removed, there is now only `SharedIndexInformer`

- The following interfaces were removed: 
* `CascadingEditReplacePatchDeletable`
* `CreateFromserverGettable`
* `EditReplacePatchDeletable`
* `Operation`
* `VersionWatchAndWaitable`
* `WatchListDeletable`
* `StatusUpdatable`
`* Cascading`
* `FilterWatchListMultiDeletable`
* `Creatable`
* `Editable`
* `Loadable`
* `Patchable`
* Status*
* And many others

The logic was consolidated onto:
* `AnyNamespaceOperation`
* `ItemWritableOperation`
* `ItemReplacable`
* And the existing interfaces representing where the methods logically belong.

## Evict Changes

`Evictable.evict` will throw an exception rather than returning `false` if the pod is not found. This ensures that `false` strictly means that the eviction failed.

## Delete Behavior

Deleting a collection is now implemented using a single delete call, rather than for each item. When the collection is namespaced and `inAnyNamespace` is used, in which case a call will be made to first determine the affected namespaces, and then a collection delete issued against each namespace.

The result of the delete calls will be a list of `StatusDetails` rather than a `boolean` value. A best effort is made to process the response from the server to populate which items are deleted.  This information is generally useful if you wish to implement some kind of blocking delete behavior; that is, ensure the returned resources based upon a matching uid have been deleted.

`delete(List<T>)` and `delete(T[])` returning `boolean` have been deprecated.  They will always return true and 404s on individual items will simply be ignored.

## Stream Changes

The usage of Piped streams is no longer supported - they make assumptions about reading and writing threads, which the client no longer honors.  They should not be passed into the methods accepting InputStreams and OutputStreams.

`ContainerResource.writingInput(PipedOutputStream in)` and `readingXXX(PipedInputStream out)` have been removed - use the redirecting methods instead.

`TtyExecErrorChannelable` methods have been deprecated in favor of `ExecWatch.exitCode` and `ExecListener.onExit`.

`ContainerResource.readingInput(InputStream in)` has been deprecated - use `redirectingInput` instead.

## OpenShift Config Model Changes

All OpenShift resources belonging to `config.openshift.io/v1` apigroup have been moved out of `io.fabric8.openshift.api.model` package. They should now be available in `io.fabric8.openshift.api.model.config.v1` package.

Commit message:

Add note to MIGRATION-v6.md
Fixes https://github.com/fabric8io/kubernetes-client/issues/5389

doc/MIGRATION-v6.md, after:

# Migration from 5.x to 6.x

## Contents:
- [API/Impl split](#apiimpl-split)
- [Default Maps](#default-maps)
- [Backwards Compatibility Interceptor](#backwards-compatibility-interceptor)
- [Namespace Changes](#namespace-changes)
- [Deserialization Resolution](#deserialization-resolution)
- [Deprecation Removals](#deprecation-removals)
- [Resource Changes](#resource-changes)
- [lists Removal](#lists-removal)
- [GenericKubernetesClient Removal](#generickubernetesclient-removal)
- [IntOrString Changes](#intorstring-changes)
- [Extension Changes](#extension-changes)
- [Adapt Changes](#adapt-changes)
- [Deprecations](#deprecations)
- [Object sorting](#object-sorting)
- [DSL Interface Changes](#dsl-interface-changes)
- [evict Changes](#evict-changes)
- [Delete Behavior](#delete-behavior)
- [Stream Changes](#stream-changes)
- [OpenShift Config Model Changes](#openshift-config-model-changes)

## Help us improve this documentation

If you encounter any problems with the following "Migration from 5.x to 6.x" instructions, please let us know by creating an issue in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fabric8io/kubernetes-client/issues).
We value your feedback and will work to address your issue promptly.
Your contribution helps us improve our documentation and makes the migration process smoother for everyone! 

## API/Impl split

This release introduces `kubernetes-client-api` and `openshift-client-api` modules.  You may use them as **compile** dependencies in your application with the respective `kubernetes-client` and `openshift-client` as **runtime** dependencies.  This will keep your compile classpath cleaner of classes and libraries that are not intentionally exposed by the Fabric8 Kubernetes Client.

If you are directly relying on classes in the -client jars other than `DefaultKubernetesClient` and `DefaultOpenShiftClient`, please let us know your usage scenario. Moving forward we'd like consider all classes in the -client jars internal.

When you rely solely on a compile dependency to the respective -api dependencies you will not be able to use `DefaultKubernetesClient` nor `DefaultOpenShiftClient` directly to create your client instances.  You should instead use `KubernetesClientBuilder`.  Passing a configuration of HttpClient is instead done through builder methods - `withConfig` and `withHttpClientFactory`.  For example:

```java
KubernetesClient client = new KubernetesClientBuilder().build();
// ...  
```
```java
OpenShiftClient openShiftClient = new new KubernetesClientBuilder().withConfig(new OpenShiftConfigBuilder()./*...*/build()).build().adapt(OpenShiftClient.class);
// ...
```

### OkHttp HttpClient

The -client dependencies still default to the OkHttp client If you are doing any customization to OkHttp clients directly, you'll need to include the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency in the compile scope - instead of the default runtime scope

### JDK HttpClient

The JDK client should be considered experimental, please consult the [README](../httpclient-jdk/README.md).

To use it, exclude the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency and add the `kubernetes-httpclient-jdk` dependency.

### Eclipse Jetty HttpClient

The Eclipse Jetty client should be considered experimental.

To use it, exclude the `kubernetes-httpclient-okhttp` dependency and add the `kubernetes-httpclient-jetty` dependency.

### Package Changes

- Readiness/OpenShiftReadiness moved from client.internal.readiness to client.readiness
- client.utils classes including Base64, CreateOrReplaceHelper, DeleteOrCreateHelper, OptionalDendencyWrapper, etc. are not in the -api jar, they are still in the -client jar under utils.internal.
- Some other effectively internal classes in dsl.base and other packages were moved to corresponding internal packages - it is unlikely this will affect you unless you developed a custom extension.  Extension development can now be done exclusively against the api, please see the previous section.

## Default Maps

All Maps in the generated object models, including `ObjectMeta.annotations` and `ObjectMeta.labels` will also be non-null by default. A small behavioral difference is that the default value will be omitted from serialization. **Previously**, if you did something like: 

```java
Pod p = new PodBuilder().withNewMetadata().withLabels(new HashMap()).endMetadata().build();
```
The `Pod` instance `p` would be serialized to: 

```yaml
metadata: 
  labels: {}
```

Now, that empty map will be omitted - which is the same as the existing behavior for arrays.

## Backwards Compatibility Interceptor

The Backwards Compatibility interceptor is now **disabled** by default.
The property `kubernetes.backwardsCompatibilityInterceptor.disable` or environment variable `KUBERNETES_BACKWARDSCOMPATIBILITYINTERCEPTOR_DISABLE` setting now defaults to `true`, rather than `false`.  If you need backwards compatibility support, please set this property to false.

## Namespace Changes

To match the behavior of kubectl the client will now consider any call to `inNamespace` as the namespace to use regardless of what is on a passed in item.  
Only if the client is left at the default namespace or a call has been made to `inAnyNamespace` will the item namespace be used.  
This applies to all calls to `inNamespace` - at the Client, Operation, or Resource level, and for all operations (load, create, delete, withItem, etc.)

The end result is that exceptions referring to mismatched namespaces will no longer be thrown.

Consider the following examples:

```java
// inNamespace called at the client level with load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that is not monitoring.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.inNamespace("monitoring").configMaps().load(item)/*...*/;

// inNamespace called at an operation level with load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that is not monitoring.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.configMaps().inNamespace("monitoring").load(item)/*...*/;

// inNamespace called at the client level with resource
// Prior behavior - context namespace is changed to match the item.  
// New behavior - the item namespace is monitoring
kubernetesClient.inNamespace("monitoring").resource(item)/*...*/;

// default namespace call to create
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that does not match the context.  
// New behavior - item will be created with its namespace, or the default if missing
kubernetesClient.configMaps().create(item); // Note, this is deperecated 

// default namespace call to load
// Prior behavior - exception if item has a namespace that does not match the context.  
// New behavior - item will be loaded with its namespace, or the default if missing
kubernetesClient.configMaps().load(item)/*...*/;
```

To track the namespace handling at the client level the `Config` has an additional boolean field `defaultNamespace`, you may set that to `false` to have the Client treat subsequent calls as if `inNamespace` had been called explicitly.

## Deserialization Resolution

The `apiVersion` on a resource being deserialized is now required.

If a version only is specified as the `apiVersion` (e.g. `apiVersion: v1`), it may match kubernetes built-in types with an empty group (for example `Pod`), or OpenShift built in types (for example `kind: Template` `apiVersion: v1` is allowed to match apiVersion: `template.openshift.io/v1`).

Otherwise, with group and version specified, the resource match uniquely with a class.  This prevents the unintentional parsing of custom types without a registered class as a built-in type of the same name.  

This means that you must ensure the `apiVersion` values are correct on the objects you are deserializing as they will no longer resolve to built-in type of the same name when there is a mistake.

## Deprecation Removals

- Removed `KubernetesClient.customResource` / `RawCustomResourceOperationsImpl`, please use the generic resource api instead 
- Removed `HttpClientUtils.createHttpClient(final Config config, final Consumer<OkHttpClient.Builder> additionalConfig)`, please use the `OkHttpClientFactory` instead
- Removed methods on `SharedInformerFactory` dealing with the `OperationContext`
- Removed `DefaultKubernetesClient` and `DefaultOpenShiftClient` constructors directly referencing OkHttp - use `OkHttpClientImpl` to wrap the `OkHttpClient`, or the `OkHttpClientFactory` instead.
- Removed the `AutoAdaptableKubernetesClient`, use the new `KubernetesClientBuilder` instead
- Removed `OpenShiftConfig` and `OpenshiftApiGroupsEnabled` methods
- Removed `Recreateable`, `RecreateApplicable`, and `ApplicableAnd` from the hierarchy of `ParameterNamespaceListVisitFromServerGetDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable`
- Removed `Applicable.apply` as it  was just an alias for `createOrReplace`

### Extension Development

Extension development may now be done using only the `kubernetes-client-api` dependency. Please see the [extensions](../extensions).

Of note:
- extension related classes are now in the package `io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.extension`, which means that you should now use `META-INF/services/io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.extension.ExtensionAdapter`
- Unless you need support for specific metadata to be returned by calls to `rootPaths`, `apiGroups`, or `apiResources`, you do not need to create a mock module.  The mocking logic can accommodate for based adapt/support checks.
- Do not include any check of support in `ExtensionAdapter.adapt`

## Resource Changes

`KubernetesClient.resource` no longer returns `NamespaceVisitFromServerGetWatchDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable`, use `NamespaceableResource` instead.

This may require you to implement previously deprecated methods on your own.  For example, instead of:

```java
client.resource(deployment).inNamespace(session.getNamespace()).deletingExisting().createOrReplace();
```

Use:

```java
var resource = client.resource(deployment).inNamespace(session.getNamespace());
resource.withTimeout(30, TimeUnit.SECONDS).delete();
resource.create();
```

Similarly `ParameterNamespaceListVisitFromServerGetDeleteRecreateWaitApplicable` had the `Recreateable` interface removed, which requires the same logic as above to implement the `deletingExisting` behavior

If you are simply trying to emulate the kubectl apply feature, consider instead using an edit or the new server side apply feature.

## lists Removal

`KuberentesClient.lists` was removed.  This entry point is effectively the same as `KubernetesClient.resourceList` or load.  Please use one of those methods instead.

For example:

Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().load`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList` or `KubernetesClient.load`
Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().create(list)`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList(list.getItems()).create()`
Instead of `KubernetesClient.lists().delete(list)`, use `KubernetesClient.resourceList(list.getItems()).delete()`

## GenericKubernetesClient Removal

GenericKubernetesClient has been removed. Instead the relevant methods are on `NamespacedKubernetesClient` and `NamespacedOpenShiftClient` directly.

## IntOrString changes

We've removed setter methods `setIntVal`, `setKind`, `setStrVal` from the class. You'd need to rely on constructors or builders for creating `IntOrString` object. Here are some examples:

- Creating an Integer based object:
  ```java
  // Creating using Constructor
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString(3000);
  // Creating using Builder
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrStringBuilder().withValue(89).build(); 
  ```
- Creating a String based object:
  ```java
  // Creating using Constructor
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString("3000");
  // Creating using Builder
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrStringBuilder().withValue("89").build();
  ```
- You can rely on existing `getIntVal`, `getStrVal` methods to get Integer or String values respectively:
  ```java
  // Get Integer values:
  IntOrString i1 = new IntOrString(3000);
  Integer intValue = i1.getIntVal();
  
  // Get String values:
  IntOrString i2 = new IntOrString("3000");
  String strValue = i2.getStrVal();
  ```

## Extension Changes

- `io.fabric8.servicecatalog.client.internal.XXXResource` interfaces moved to `io.fabric8.servicecatalog.client.dsl.XXXResource` to no longer be in an internal package.

- `io.fabric8.volumesnapshot.client.internal.XXXResource` interfaces moved to `io.fabric8.volumesnapshot.client.XXXResource` to no longer be in an internal package.

- the jsonschema2pojo logic was consolidated with the built-in models.  This introduces some previously excluded fields, such as `PipelineSpec._finally`.  It will also manipulate properties to conform to expectations of the builder logic - so rather than `JSONSchemaPropsBuilder.getxDescriptors` there will be `getXDescriptors`.

## Adapt Changes

`Client.isAdaptable` and `Client.adapt` will check first if the existing client is an instance of the desired type.

`Client.adapt` will no longer perform the `isAdaptable` check - that is you may freely adapt from one Client to another as long as the extension exists.  If you need to make a specific check of support, please use the `Client.supports` method.

## Deprecations

- `ApiVersionUtil` classes in each extension have been deprecated, you should use `io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.utils.ApiVersionUtil` instead.
- `HttpClientUtils.createHttpClient` has been deprecated, you should create your own client factory instead.

- Extension specific `EnableXXXMockClient` and `XXXMockServer` classes have been deprecated.  You can simply use `EnableKubernetesMockClient` and `KubernetesMockServer` instead. Dependencies on the xxx-mock jar are then no longer needed, just a dependency to `kubernetes-server-mock`.
- `Client.supportsApiPath` and `Client.isAdaptable` have been deprecated.  Please use `Client.supports` and `Client.hasApiGroup` as needed.

- `Informable.withIndexers` has been deprecated.  Indexers can be added/removed after the creation of the informer.

- The methods provided by `MultiDeleteable` have moved to `FilterWatchListMultiDeletable` and have been deprecated. You may use `KubernetesClient.resourceList`, or the individual resource methods to delete the items.

- DSL methods available off of a resource context involving a resource - `client.configMaps().withName("name").create(configMap)` - should instead use a no-argument method - `client.configMaps().resource(configMap).create()` or `client.resource(configMap).create()`.

- DSL methods available off of a collection context involving a resource - `client.configMaps().create(configMap)` - should instead use a no-argument method - `client.configMaps().resource(configMap).create()` or `client.resource(configMap).create()`.  
The only exception to the above is `patch(PatchContext, item)` - it is valid to be called after withName. 

- CustomResourceList was deprecated - use DefaultKubernetesResourceList instead.

## Object Sorting

`KubernetesList` and `Template` will no longer automatically sort their objects by default. You may use the `HasMetadataComparator` yourself to sort the items as needed.

## DSL Interface Changes

- The usage of `Boolean` in the api was removed where it was not a nullable value.  Please expect a `boolean` primitive from methods such as delete, copy, or as an argument in `Loggable.getLog`

- `WatchListDeletable` now takes three type parameters to include the Resource type.

- `PodResource`, `BuildResource`, and interfaces related to containers and logging are no longer generic.

- `SharedInformer` was removed, there is now only `SharedIndexInformer`

- The following interfaces were removed: 
* `CascadingEditReplacePatchDeletable`
* `CreateFromserverGettable`
* `EditReplacePatchDeletable`
* `Operation`
* `VersionWatchAndWaitable`
* `WatchListDeletable`
* `StatusUpdatable`
`* Cascading`
* `FilterWatchListMultiDeletable`
* `Creatable`
* `Editable`
* `Loadable`
* `Patchable`
* Status*
* And many others

The logic was consolidated onto:
* `AnyNamespaceOperation`
* `ItemWritableOperation`
* `ItemReplacable`
* And the existing interfaces representing where the methods logically belong.

## Evict Changes

`Evictable.evict` will throw an exception rather than returning `false` if the pod is not found. This ensures that `false` strictly means that the eviction failed.

## Delete Behavior

Deleting a collection is now implemented using a single delete call, rather than for each item. When the collection is namespaced and `inAnyNamespace` is used, in which case a call will be made to first determine the affected namespaces, and then a collection delete issued against each namespace.

The result of the delete calls will be a list of `StatusDetails` rather than a `boolean` value. A best effort is made to process the response from the server to populate which items are deleted.  This information is generally useful if you wish to implement some kind of blocking delete behavior; that is, ensure the returned resources based upon a matching uid have been deleted.

`delete(List<T>)` and `delete(T[])` returning `boolean` have been deprecated.  They will always return true and 404s on individual items will simply be ignored.

## Stream Changes

The usage of Piped streams is no longer supported - they make assumptions about reading and writing threads, which the client no longer honors.  They should not be passed into the methods accepting InputStreams and OutputStreams.

`ContainerResource.writingInput(PipedOutputStream in)` and `readingXXX(PipedInputStream out)` have been removed - use the redirecting methods instead.

`TtyExecErrorChannelable` methods have been deprecated in favor of `ExecWatch.exitCode` and `ExecListener.onExit`.

`ContainerResource.readingInput(InputStream in)` has been deprecated - use `redirectingInput` instead.

## OpenShift Config Model Changes

All OpenShift resources belonging to `config.openshift.io/v1` apigroup have been moved out of `io.fabric8.openshift.api.model` package. They should now be available in `io.fabric8.openshift.api.model.config.v1` package.
